Basic SQL Syntax
Structured Query Language
is the primary language
used to interact with relational databases.
While there is a standard syntax for SQL,
most database software packages
have implementation variations.
However, the basics
are generally the same.
Let’s walk through some
basic SQL concepts and syntax
to get a feel for it before
moving on to exploitation.
A relational database is
made up of one or more tables
and each table has one or more columns.
Each entry in a table is called a row.
In this table, the columns are
id, username, and password.
There is one row of data for a user
with the username of tom.jones
and a password of notunusual.
In most cases,
we will be dealing with queries.
Queries are instructions
to the database engine
and we use them to retrieve or
manipulate data in the database.
A SELECT query is the most basic interaction.
For example, we can
paraphrase this query as
“show all columns and
records in the users table”.
The first argument to the
SELECT command is a column
and the asterisk is a special
character that means “all”.
We also have the option of introducing
a conditional clause to our query
with a WHERE clause.
We can paraphrase this query as
“show the username field
from the users table,
displaying only records with an id of 1”.
These are just some of the basics.
We can also
INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE data in tables.
We won’t cover those statements here,
but as we show how
to exploit SQL injection,
we will cover additional
SQL syntax as needed.